>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 16:
ANOTHER AMERICAN HOSTAGE IS
BEHEADED BY ISIS.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
DESPITE LOUD PROTESTS, THIS TOWN
MIGHT BECOME THE FIRST IN THE
NATION TO BAN ALL TOBACCO SALES.
>> WE DO NOT WANT THE RESIDENTS
OF OUR COMMUNITY TO BECOME
ANOTHER STATISTIC IN TOBACCO-
RELATED ILLNESS AND/OR DEATH.
>> WHETHER IT IS ME, MY
CHILDREN, MY FAMILY, MY FRIENDS,
OR MY NEIGHBORS, IT IS THEIR
FREE CHOICE TO SMOKE!
>> Sreenivasan: AND THE RECENT
RELEASE OF AMERICAN DETAINEES
FROM NORTH KOREA.
THE STORY BEHIND THE STORY.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
IN LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
PRESIDENT OBAMA THIS AFTERNOON
DENOUNCED THE BEHEADING OF
ANOTHER AMERICAN HOSTAGE BY
ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS AS AN ACT OF
PURE EVIL.
THIS MORNING, THE ISLAMIC STATE
RELEASED A VIDEO, NOW CONFIRMED
AS AUTHENTIC BY THE WHITE HOUSE,
SHOWING THE AFTERMATH OF THE
EXECUTION OF 26-YEAR-OLD PETER
KASSIG.
THE INDIANA NATIVE SERVED IN
IRAQ AS A U.S. ARMY RANGER
BEFORE BEING TRAINED AS AN
EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN AND
THEN BECOMING AN AID WORKER.
OUR REPORT, BY ROBERT MOORE OF
ITN, BEGINS WITH FOOTAGE OF
KASSIG TAKEN IN LEBANON IN 2012
WHILE HE WAS CARING FOR WOUNDED
SYRIAN REFUGEES.
>> WE GET ONE LIFE AND THAT'S
IT.
WE GET ONE SHOT AT THIS.
>> PETER KASSIG HAD BEEN HELD A
HOSTAGE FOR OVER A YEAR.
AN AMERICAN AID WORKER AND
FORMER U.S. SOLDIER HE WAS
CLEARLY IN HUGE DANGER IN THE
HANDS OF THE ISLAMIC STATE.
>> THE WAY I THOUGHT I DIDN'T
HAVE A CHOICE.
THIS IS WHAT I WAS PUT HERE TO
DO.
♪
>> IN A VIDEO TODAY FAR TOO
GRAPHIC TO SHOW BEYOND A FEW
IMAGES, IT IS CLEAR THAT KASSIG,
ALONG WITH A NUMBER CAPTURED
SYRIAN SOLDIERS, HAS BEEN
MURDERED.
THE SAME BRITISH ACCENTED MAN
KNOWN AS JIHADI JOHN, IS AGAIN
PROMINENT.
HE IS SEEN NOT AGAINST EMPTY
DESERT BUT FIELDS.
CAMERAS BEHIND HIM.
CAMERON SPOKE ABOUT THE BRITON
BELIEVED TO BE RESPONSIBLE.
>> WE SHOULD BE NO DOUBT THAT I
WANT JIHADI JOHN TO FACE JUSTICE
FOR THE APPALLING THINGS, THE
APPALLING ACTS IN SYRIA.
>> CHANGING HIS NAME FROM PETER
TO ABDUL RAHMAN.
IN VAIN, HIS PARENTS PLEADED
WITH THE MILITANTS TO RELEASE
HIM.
>> WE IMPLORE HIS CAN A CAPTORS
TO SHOW MERCY AND LET OUR SON
GO.
>> BEFORE HIS MURDER KASSIG HAD
WRITTEN A LETTER TO HIS PARENTS.
HIS FATHER RECENTLY READ A SHORT
EXTRACT.
>> IF I GO DOWN I WON'T GO DOWN
THINKING ANYTHING BUT WHAT I
KNOW TO BE TRUE.
THAT YOU AND MOM LOVE ME MORE
THAN THE MOON.
>> IT IS LIKE A NIGHTMARE.
JUST LIKE HAPPENING AGAIN.
>> AND SALOOMI ANDERSON WHOSE
FATHER WAS CAPTURED IN THE
MIDDLE EAST MORE THAN A DECADE
AGO, KNEW KASSIG WELL, PLEADED
WITH HIS CAPTIVES TO RELEASE
HIM.
>> HE HAS DONE NOTHING BUT HELP
THE PEOPLE IN YOUR COUNTRY, JUST
REGULAR PEOPLE, AND THAT COULD
BE YOUR WIFE, YOUR CHILD.
>> I GOT YOU.
>> THE PLEAS THERE HIS FAMILY
AND FRIENDS WERE IGNORED.
NOW ANOTHER AMERICAN HOSTAGE HAS
LOST HIS LIFE, FOR WANTING ONLY
TO HELP EASE THE AN ANY OF
SYRIA.
>> AVENUES OF THE BEHEADING.
>> Sreenivasan: AFTER NEWS OF
THE BEHEADING BECAME PUBLIC,
KASSIG'S PARENTS ISSUED THIS
STATEMENT:
"WE PREFER OUR SON IS WRITTEN
ABOUT AND REMEMBERED FOR HIS
IMPORTANT WORK AND THE LOVE HE
SHARED WITH FRIENDS AND FAMILY,
NOT IN THE MANNER THE HOSTAGE
TAKERS WOULD USE TO MANIPULATE
AMERICANS AND FURTHER THEIR
CAUSE."
THE CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS
OF STAFF, ARMY GENERAL MARTIN
DEMPSEY HAS ENDED A PREVIOUSLY
UNANNOUNCED TRIP TO IRAQ AFTER
MEETING WITH TOP KURDISH
OFFICIALS ABOUT THE WAR ON ISIS.
THE U.S. IS PLANNING TO SET UP A
TRAINING SITE NEAR IRBIL, THE
CAPITAL OF THE SEMI-AUTONOMOUS
REGION.
A SERIES OF BOMBINGS NEAR
BAGHDAD TODAY LEFT AT LEAST FIVE
PEOPLE DEAD AND 20 MORE WOUNDED.
IN A TELEVISION INTERVIEW
BROADCAST TODAY, THE ISRAELI
PRIME MINISTER, BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU, SAID IRAN CANNOT BE
TRUSTED TO HELP IN THE FIGHT
AGAINST ISIS.
HE APPARENTLY WAS REACTING TO
PUBLISHED REPORTS THAT PRESIDENT
OBAMA SENT A LETTER RECENTLY TO
IRAN'S SUPREME LEADER, EXPLORING
COOPERATION ON THAT FRONT.
>> BASICALLY, THE MIDDLE EAST IS
AWASH WITH MILITANT ISLAMISTS,
THE MILITANT ISLAMISTS LED BY AL
QAEDA AND ISIS ON THE SUNNI
SIDE.
THE MILITANT IRAN AND HEZBOLLAH
ON THE SHIA SIDE.
WE WANT BOTH OF THEM TO LOSE.
THE LAST THING WE WANT IS EITHER
ONE OF THEM TO GET WEAPONS OF
MASS DESTRUCTION.
LOOK AT WHAT ISIS IS DOING NOW
WITH ASSAULT RIFLES AND PICK UP
TRUCKS.
JUST IMAGINE WHAT IRAN WOULD DO
IF IT HAD NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
>> Sreenivasan: THE UNITED
STATES AND OTHER WESTERN POWERS
HAVE BEEN NEGOTIATING WITH IRAN
FOR MANY MONTHS NOW TO STRIKE A
DEAL TO CURB IRAN'S NUCLEAR
PROGRAM IN EXCHANGE FOR AN
EASING OF ECONOMIC SANCTIONS
AGAINST THAT COUNTRY.
THE DEADLINE IS A WEEK FROM
MONDAY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS ON THE WAY
BACK HOME AFTER A WEEK-LONG TRIP
TO ASIA, THAT ENDED WITH A
SUMMIT MEETING IN AUSTRALIA OF
LEADERS FROM THE WORLD'S 20
LARGEST ECONOMIES.
AFTER APPARENTLY DIFFICULT
TALKS, WHICH ONE E.U. OFFICIAL
DESCRIBED AS TRENCH WARFARE, THE
LEADERS ISSUED A COMMUNIQUE
CALLING FOR STRONG AND EFFECTIVE
ACTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE.
THE GOAL IS TO WORK TOWARD A
LEGALLY BINDING AGREEMENT AT A
U.N. CLIMATE CHANGE CONFERENCE
IN PARIS NEXT YEAR.
THIS WEEKEND, THE UNITED STATES
COMMITTED THREE BILLION DOLLARS
TO A FUND TO ADDRESS CLIMATE
CHANGE.
JAPAN COMMITTED ANOTHER ONE-AND-
A-HALF BILLION DOLLARS TODAY.
BEFORE HEADING HOME FROM
AUSTRALIA, THE PRESIDENT ISSUED
A NEW WARNING TO PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN ABOUT THE
CONSEQUENCES OF RUSSIA'S
INCURSIONS INTO UKRAINE.
>> IF HE CONTINUES DOWN THE PATH
THAT HE IS ON, VIOLATING
INTERNATIONAL LAW, PROVIDING
HEAVY ARMS TO THE SEPARATISTS IN
UKRAINE.
THEN THE ISOLATION THAT RUSSIA
IS CURRENTLY EXPERIENCING WILL
CONTINUE.
AT THIS POINT, THE SANCTIONS
THAT WE HAVE IN PLACE ARE BITING
PLENTY GOOD.
WE RETAIN THE CAPABILITIES AND
WE HAVE OUR TEAMS CONSTANTLY
LOOKING AT MECHANISMS IN WHICH
TO TURN UP ADDITIONAL PRESSURE
AS NECESSARY.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PRESIDENT'S
COMMENTS WERE ECHOED BY BRITISH
PRIME MINISTER DAVID CAMERON,
WHO MET PRIVATELY WITH PUTIN
YESTERDAY.
>> PRESIDENT PUTIN CAN SEE THAT
HE IS AT A CROSSROADS.
>> Sreenivasan: PUTIN LEFT THE
MEETING EARLY, AHEAD OF THE
RELEASE OF THE GROUP'S
COMMUNIQUE.
HE INSISTED HIS EARLY DEPARTURE
HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH THE
FIERCE CRITICISM HE ENDURED
DURING THE GATHERING.
>> Sreenivasan: FROM UKRAINE
TODAY, NEWLY RELEASED AMATEUR
VIDEO SHOWS THE MOMENTS
IMMEDIATELY AFTER A MALAYSIAN
AIRLINER CARRYING 298 PEOPLE WAS
SHOT DOWN IN JULY, KILLING
EVERYONE ON BOARD.
TODAY, WORKERS IN THE REBEL-HELD
EAST BEGAN COLLECTING THE
WRECKAGE.
DEBRIS IS SCATTERED OVER AN AREA
OF EIGHT SQUARE MILES AND THE
RECOVERY IS EXPECTED TO LAST TEN
DAYS.
THE PLANE WAS EN ROUTE FROM
AMSTERDAM TO KUALA LUMPUR WHEN
IT WAS EVIDENTLY BROUGHT DOWN BY
A SURFACE TO AIR MISSILE FIRED
BY PRO-RUSSIAN REBELS.
THE RECOVERY EFFORT IS BEING
SUPERVISED BY INVESTIGATORS FROM
THE NETHERLANDS AND THE
ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY AND
COOPERATION IN EUROPE.
ONE OF AFGHANISTAN'S FEMALE
LAWMAKERS, AN OUTSPOKEN CRITIC
OF THE TALIBAN, SURVIVED A BOMB
ATTACK IN KABUL TODAY.
AUTHORITIES SAY SHUKRIA
BARAKZAI SUFFERED MINOR
INJURIES FROM THE BLAST.
THREE OTHERS WERE KILLED AND
MORE THAN 20 OTHERS WERE
WOUNDED.
FROM AFRICA, WORD THAT NIGERIAN
AUTHORITIES HAVE RECAPTURED THAT
TOWN WHERE MORE THAN TWO HUNDRED
SCHOOL GIRLS WERE ABDUCTED BY
BOKO HARAM MILITANTS LAST APRIL.
THERE IS STILL NO WORD ABOUT THE
MISSING GIRLS' WHEREABOUTS.
AND A STUDY CONDUCTED BY THE
NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH
SUGGESTS A POSSIBLE CONNECTION
BETWEEN THE USE OF SUNBLOCK AND
INFERTILITY IN MEN.
SCIENTISTS FOLLOWED 500 COUPLES
TRYING TO CONCEIVE.
AS PART OF THEIR WORK, THEY TOOK
URINE SAMPLES FROM THE MEN.
THOSE WHO TOOK LONGEST TO
CONCEIVE ALSO HAD HIGH
CONCENTRATIONS OF TWO CHEMICALS
COMMONLY FOUND IN SUN BLOCKS.
THE CHEMICALS, WHICH HELP FILTER
OUT U.V. RAYS, ARE ALSO FOUND IN
MOISTURIZERS AND SHAMPOOS.
>> Sreenivasan: AND NOW TO OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT, OUR IN-DEPTH
REPORTS FROM AROUND THE NATION
AND AROUND THE WORLD.
DESPITE DECADES OF WARNINGS FROM
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT ESTIMATES
THAT NEARLY A QUARTER OF ALL
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STILL USE
TOBACCO, AND THAT, AS A RESULT,
MILLIONS OF THE WILL DIE
PREMATURELY.
NOW, ONE TOWN IN MASSACHUSETTS
IS CONSIDERING DOING SOMETHING
ABOUT IT.
SOMETHING NO OTHER TOWN IN
AMERICA HS EVER TRIED.
A TOTAL BAN ON TOBACCO SALES.
AS NEWSHOUR REPORTER WILLIAM
BRANGHAM DISCOVERED WHEN HE WENT
THERE A FEW DAYS AGO.
THE IDEA HAS CREATED AN UPROAR.
>> Reporter: THE TOWN OF
WESTMINSTER, MASSACHUSETTS,
POPULATION 7,300, IS A SMALL,
QUIET COMMUNITY ABOUT AN HOUR
WEST OF BOSTON.
WHEN THE LOCAL BOARD OF HEALTH
HOLDS MEETINGS, IT USUALLY
HAPPENS HERE IN THIS ROOM, WHERE
YOU CAN GET ADVICE ABOUT THINGS
LIKE SEPTIC TANKS AND MOSQUITO
CONTROL.
BUT NOT ON THIS DAY.
THIS MEETING WEDNESDAY NIGHT HAD
TO BE MOVED TO THE LOCAL
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL BECAUSE THE
TOWN IS UP IN ARMS.
>> YOU PEOPLE MAKE ME SICK!
>> Reporter: WHY SO MAD?
THAT BOARD OF HEALTH IS
PROPOSING TO MAKE WESTMINSTER
THE FIRST TOWN IN THE ENTIRE
COUNTRY TO COMPLETELY BAN THE
SALE OF TOBACCO.
>> IT CAN BE ARGUED THAT THE
BOARD OF HEALTH PERMITTING THESE
ESTABLISHMENTS TO SELL THESE
DANGEROUS PRODUCTS THAT, WHEN
USED AS DIRECTED, KILLS 50% OF
ITS USERS, ETHICALLY GOES
AGAINST OUR PUBLIC HEALTH
MISSION.
>> Reporter: THE TOWN'S PROPOSAL
WOULD MAKE IT ILLEGAL TO SELL
ANY PRODUCT CONTAINING NICOTINE
WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
SO, NO CIGARETTES, CHEWING
TOBACCO, CIGARS, VAPORIZERS.
YOU'D STILL BE ABLE TO SMOKE OR
USE TOBACCO IN TOWN, JUST NOT
BUY IT.
>> IF WE CAN PREVENT CHILDREN
FROM HAVING ACCESS AND EXPOSURE
TO NICOTINE AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS
AND REDUCE THE CHANCES OF THEM
SMOKING OR USING THEM, THEN
WE'VE ESSENTIALLY SAVED LIVES.
>> Reporter: WHILE IT'S ALREADY
ILLEGAL FOR KIDS TO BUY TOBACCO,
THE HEALTH BOARD SAYS THE
TOBACCO INDUSTRY MAKES PRODUCTS
LIKE THESE SHINY, FRUIT FLAVORED
CIGARS AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS IN
ORDER TO LURE KIDS INTO A
LIFETIME HABIT.
THE INDUSTRY DENIES TARGETING
KIDS.
THE EFFORT BEGAN WHEN ONE OF THE
THREE HEALTH BOARD MEMBERS
SUGGESTED THE TOBACCO BAN,
FOLLOWING THE LEAD OF OTHER
HEALTH BOARDS IN OTHER
MASSACHUSETTS TOWNS THAT HAD
LIMITED WHERE RESIDENTS COULD
SMOKE OR WHAT KIND OF TOBACCO
PRODUCTS THEY COULD BUY.
WESTMINSTER'S VOLUNTEER BOARD
CONSULTED A SPECIALIST TO
EXAMINE THE PROS AND CONS
OF A TOTAL BAN.
THEY TALKED WITH THIS MAN.
D.J. WILSON IS THE TOBACCO
CONTROL DIRECTOR FOR THE
MASSACHUSETTS MUNICIPAL
ASSOCIATION, A POLICY GROUP
THAT ADVISES LOCAL TOWNS.
>> WE WOULD NEVER HAVE GUESSED
TEN-YEARS-AGO THAT THERE
WOULD'VE BEEN 49-CENT GRAPE
CIGARS AVAILABLE TO KIDS, OR
THAT ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES
WOULD'VE COME IN-- OR IF THEY
EXISTED AT ALL, WOULD COME IN
COTTON CANDY FLAVORS.
I DON'T SPEAK FOR THE BOARD OF
HEALTH, BUT I THINK THEIR GOALS-
- THEY ARE TIRED OF HAVING
DIFFERENT PRODUCTS POP UP THAT
ARE VERY KID FRIENDLY.
>> Reporter: THE BIGGEST
OPPONENTS OF THE PROPOSAL ARE
THE SEVEN LOCAL STORES IN
WESTMINSTER WHO'RE LICENSED TO
SELL TOBACCO.
MOST ARE OPPOSED.
>> THANKS EVERYBODY FOR COMING
TODAY--
>> Reporter: STORE OWNER BRIAN
VINCENT HAS BEEN ONE OF THE MOST
VOCAL.
HE OWNS VINCENT'S COUNTRY STORE
ON MAIN STREET IN TOWN.
IT'S A MEDIUM-SIZED GROCERY
STORE THAT VINCENT'S DAD STARTED
AND RAN FOR 18 YEARS.
HE SAYS NO STORE IN WESTMINSTER
HAS EVER BEEN CITED FOR SELLING
TOBACCO TO KIDS, AND BANNING IT
WOULD COST MORE THAN JUST
TOBACCO SALES.
>> MOST PEOPLE THAT BUY TOBACCO,
WILL GRAB A COLD DRINK FOR THE
ROAD, MAYBE SCRATCH TICKETS, A
BAG OF CHIPS.
SO IT'S NOT JUST AN EIGHT DOLLAR
SALE, IT'S A $20, $30 SALE.
>> Reporter: VINCENT POINTS OUT
THERE ARE SEVERAL NEIGHBORING
TOWNS AROUND WESTMINSTER FULL OF
STORES THAT SELL TOBACCO, SO HE
SAYS THE BAN WOULD JUST DRIVE
CUSTOMERS AND THEIR MONEY,
ELSEWHERE.
>> WE'RE JUST GOING TO BE
SENDING ALL THESE SALES FIVE
MINUTES DOWN THE ROAD TO
ANOTHER TOWN WHERE THESE
CUSTOMERS WILL SPEND MONEY ON
GAS OUT OF TOWN, FOOD OUT OF
TOWN, AND BEFORE YOU KNOW IT THE
GAS STATION HERE GOING UNDER IN
WESTMINSTER AND OTHER
BUSINESSES.
>> Reporter: ANOTHER CONCERN
THAT'S BEEN RAISED IS THE
POTENTIAL IMPACT ON JOBS.
MOST MORNINGS AT THE DEPOT
GENERAL STORE, YOU'LL FIND A FEW
REGULARS HANGING OUT, HAVING
COFFEE BEFORE WORK.
>> THIS BETTER BE A WINNER,
BECAUSE WOULDN'T THAT BE GREAT?
>> Reporter: CHRIS BJURLING HAS
OWNED THIS SMALL CONVENIENCE
STORE FOR 22 YEARS.
LIKE A LOT OF BUSINESSES, HE
SUPPORTS THE LOCAL POLICE AND
KIDS' SPORTING TEAMS.
HE ALSO EMPLOYS SEVEN PEOPLE,
SEVERAL OF THEM FULL TIME.
HE'S CALCULATED THAT LOSING THE
TOBACCO AND RELATED RETAIL SALES
WOULD COST HIM ROUGHLY TWO
THIRDS OF THE MONEY HE USES TO
PAY THOSE EMPLOYEES.
AND FOR SOME OF THEM, THESE ARE
CRUCIAL JOBS.
>> IT BECOMES VERY PERSONAL,
THESE PEOPLE ARE IMPORTANT TO
ME.
LISA HAS BEEN WITH ME FOR 18
YEARS.
DENISE HAS BEEN, I'D HAVE TO ASK
HER BUT I'M GONNA SAY 12 TO 13
YEARS.
FOR LISA, I AM HER ENTIRE
INCOME.
SHE IN FACT WILL LOSE HER HOUSE
IF--
>> Reporter: IF THIS JOB DOESN'T
EXIST.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Reporter: WE'VE HEARD FROM
SEVERAL LOCAL BUSINESSES THAT IF
TOBACCO IS NOT ALLOWED TO BE
SOLD HERE THAT'S GONNA REALLY
HURT BUSINESS HERE AND COULD
JEOPARDIZE LOCAL JOBS.
IF THAT'S TRUE, DO YOU THINK
THAT THAT ECONOMIC PAIN IS WORTH
THE PUBLIC HEALTH BENEFIT?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I MEAN, THERE
HAS BEEN A LOT OF QUANTIFYING
THAT A LOT OF THE DISEASES THAT
ARE CAUSED FROM SMOKING HAVE
COST US IN THE STATE TENS OF
MILLIONS AND NATIONALLY
HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS.
IT IS A HUGE COST-- TAX BURDEN
TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE, TO THE
AMERICAN WORKFORCE TO HAVE
PEOPLE ON DISABILITY AND HAVING
TO RETIRE EARLIER BECAUSE THEY
SMOKED FOR A LIFETIME.
SO, THAT IS SOMETHING THAT YOU
HAVE TO WEIGH AGAINST THE LOSS
OF PROFIT FROM SELLING TOBACCO
PRODUCTS IN A RETAIL STORE.
>> Reporter: ACCORDING TO THE
U.S. SURGEON GENERAL, TOBACCO-
RELATED ILLNESSES COST AN
ESTIMATED $300 BILLION, A YEAR
IN MEDICAL CARE AND LOST
PRODUCTIVITY, TO SAY NOTHING
ABOUT THE LOST OR SHORTENED
LIVES.
IN WESTMINSTER, WHILE LOCAL
BUSINESSES HAVE BEEN THE MAIN
CRITICS OF THIS PLAN, IT SEEMS
MANY LOCAL RESIDENTS DON'T LIKE
IT EITHER.
AND NOT JUST THE SMOKERS.
OF THE TWO DOZEN OR SO PEOPLE WE
SPOKE WITH, WE COULD FIND ONLY
ONE RESIDENT WHO SUPPORTED THE
BAN.
>> I JUST PRAISE THE COMMUNITY
THAT'S STANDING UP FOR IT AND
MAKING A STATEMENT FOR IT MAYBE
IT WILL BECOME MORE OF A NORM IN
THE FUTURE.
>> Reporter: BUT THAT WAS
DEFINITELY THE MINORITY
POSITION.
>> THEY ARE LEAVING US NO CHOICE
BUT TO TAKE OUR BUSINESS OUT OF
TOWN.
>> Reporter: EVEN SOMEONE LIKE
JIM PATRIA, WHO SMOKED FOR 30
YEARS, NOW HAS CHRONIC PULMONARY
OBSTRUCTIVE DISEASE, CAN BARELY
BREATHE EVEN WITH AN OXYGEN TUBE
IN HIS NOSE-- EVEN HE'S AGAINST
THE BAN.
I MEAN YOU OF ALL PEOPLE YOU
SHOULD KNOW WHY THE TOWN WOULD
WANT TO STOP SMOKING, YOU HAVE
ALL THESE HEALTH CONDITIONS FROM
IT, BUT YOU STILL THINK BANNING
IT IS A BAD IDEA.
>> YEAH, YEAH, I DO.
I DON'T KNOW HOW TO EXPLAIN IT
BUT I DO.
>> Reporter: IS IT THAT YOU
DON'T WANT THE GOVERNMENT
TELLING YOU WHAT YOU CAN AND
CAN'T DO?
>> NO.
IT'S NOT THAT SO MUCH.
I WANT TO SAY I JUST DON'T THINK
IT WILL WORK.
I DON'T THINK IT'LL WORK,
BANNING IT.
>> Reporter: STORE OWNER CHRIS
BJURLING SAID HE THINKS BANNING
TOBACCO IN TOWN WOULD JUST BE
THE BEGINNING.
>> IS IT ALCOHOL NEXT?
OR IS IT THE CANDY BAR?
TOO MUCH SUGAR.
AND THEY SAY "OH NO, WE WOULDN'T
EVEN CONSIDER SOMETHING LIKE
THAT," BUT WHEN YOU CRUSADE,
ONCE YOU ACCOMPLISH ONE CRUSADE,
YOU GOTTA HAVE ANOTHER ONE.
I MEAN, IT'S IN YOUR BLOOD NOW.
YOU WANT MORE SUCCESS.
AND THEY'LL GO ON TO SOMETHING
ELSE.
>> Reporter: AT THAT TOWN HALL
MEETING WEDNESDAY, THE BOARD OF
HEALTH GOT AN EARFUL.
>> WHETHER IT'S ME, MY CHILDREN,
MY FAMILY, MY FRIENDS, OR MY
NEIGHBORS, IS THEIR FREE CHOICE
TO SMOKE.
THIS MEETING, WITH ALL THESE
CAMERAS, IS A MOCKERY OF THIS
TOWN IN FRONT OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA!
>> Reporter: THE RESIDENTS OF
WESTMINSTER DON'T GET TO VOTE ON
THIS PROPOSED TOBACCO BAN.
CITY OFFICIALS DON'T GET TO VOTE
EITHER.
THE DECISION WILL BE MADE BY THE
THREE MEMBER BOARD OF HEALTH,
AND THEY'RE SUPPOSED TO DECIDE
LATER IN DECEMBER.
>> FREEDOM!
>> Reporter: WHEN SOME OF THE
CROWD GOT TOO UNRULY, THE BOARD
CANCELLED THE HEARING AFTER JUST
FOUR SPEAKERS.
>> ALL RIGHT, THIS HEARING IS
CLOSED.
THANK YOU ALL FOR COMING--
(CROWD SHOUTING)
>> Reporter: THE POLICE ESCORTED
THE CHAIR OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH
OUT THE DOOR AND SAFELY TO HER
CAR, WHILE SOMEONE TRIED TO GET
THE CROWD TO SING "GOD BLESS
AMERICA."
♪
>> ♪ WHITE WITH FOAM...
♪ GOD BLESS
AMERICA
♪ MY HOME
SWEET HOME! ♪
>> Sreenivasan: IS A CITY-WIDE
BAN ON THE SALE OF TOBACCO A
WISE MOVE?
TAKE OUR POLL AT
newshour.pbs.org AND LET US KNOW
WHAT YOU THINK.
>> Sreenivasan: LAST WEEKEND, WE
REPORTED ON THE SUDDEN,
UNEXPECTED RELEASE OF
KENNETH BAE AND MATTHEW TODD
MILLER, TWO AMERICANS WHO HAD
BEEN DETAINED AND THEN SENTENCED
TO LENGTHY PRISON TERMS IN
NORTH KOREA.
THE DEAL THAT LED TO THEIR
RELEASE WAS NEGOTIATED BY JAMES
CLAPPER, THE U.S. NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE DIRECTOR.
FOR MORE ABOUT HOW THE DEAL
HAPPENED THAT, WE ARE JOINED NOW
FROM WASHINGTON BY ADAM ENTOUS.
EARLIER THIS WEEK, HE CO-
AUTHORED AN ARTICLE DESCRIBING
THE SECRET TALKS THAT ULTIMATELY
LED TO FREEDOM FOR BAE AND
MILLER.
>> SO HOW DID THIS COME TOGETHER
AND WHY DNI CLAPPER?
>> THE NORTH DECIDED IT WANTED A
CABINET LEVEL EMISSARY, SENT TO
COME PICK THE TWO AMERICANS.
AND WHEN THE CABINET, WHEN THE
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISORS TO
THE PRESIDENT, CLAPPER WAS A
STANDOUT, IS HE AN EXPERT ON THE
NORTH AND HAS FOR THE NORTH AND
SPENT TIME IN THE SOUTH OF KOREA
EARLIER IN HIS CAREER.
SO IT WAS A NATURAL PICK.
AND HE FLEW IN, IT WAS KIND OF A
VERY BIZARRE SCENARIO WHERE HE
LITERALLY FLEW IN, WASN'T SURE
HE WAS GOING TO BE BRINGING THEM
HOME.
WASN'T EVEN SURE WHAT WOULD BE
ON THE AGENDA FOR HIS MEETINGS
THERE.
>> AND YOU SAID THEY ACTUALLY
HAD A DOSSIER ON HIM.
>> THEY KNEW HOW MANY FLIGHTS HE
WAS ON WHEN HE WAS IN THE SOUTH
FOR EXAMPLE.
I THINK CLAPPER WAS SURPRISED
BY, THAT THAT THEY HAD THAT MUCH
INFORMATION AND THEY WERE TRYING
TO IMPRESS HIM BY HOW MUCH THEY
KNEW ABOUT HIM.
THE NORTH WANTED HIM TO BE
CARRYING SOME SORT OF BROADER
PEACE OVERTURE, SOME SORT OF
BREAK THROUGH, INSTEAD OF JUST
TO COME TO PICK UP THE TWO
AMERICANS AND THEY WERE VERY
DISAPPOINTED BY THAT.
AND HE WAS STRUCK BY WHAT HE SAW
AS A GENERATIONAL GAP BETWEEN
THE YOUNGER GENERATION AND THE
OLDER GENERATION, THE YOUNGER
BEING MORE WILLING TO DEAL WITH
THE REST.
>> WALK US THRUST THROUGH THE
NEGOTIATION IF YOU WOULD.
>> I WOULDN'T CALL IT A
NEGOTIATION.
SPECIFICALLY THEY CHOSE CLAPPER
BECAUSE THEY DIDN'T WANT TO GIVE
THE NORTH AN IMPRESSION THIS WAS
A NEGOTIATION NEGOTIATION.
NEGOTIATION.
HE WAS THERE TO RECEIVE THE TWO
AMERICANS.
HE ARRIVES, GETS IN THE
LIMOUSINE, HE ARRIVES AT A GUEST
HOUSE WHERE THEY'RE PUTTING HIM
UP, HE HAS A TENSE DINNER LASTED
FOR MANY HOURS.
HE HAD THE BEST KIMCHEE OF HIS
ENTIRE LIFE, BUT IT WAS A TENSE
ENCOUNTER.
HE GOES BACK TO THE GUEST HOUSE
AFTER THE MEAL, ISN'T SURE WHAT
IS GOING TO HAPPEN.
DURING THE MEETING, HE GIVERS A
LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT TO HIS
INTERLOCUTOR.
RELEASE OF THE AMERICANS AS A
GOODWILL GESTURE .
HE'S TOLD NEXT DAY AT WHAT POINT
TO PACK HIS BAGS.
HE HAD NO IDEA THAT THE --
WHETHER THE MISSION WAS A
FAILURE.
HE PICKED UP THE TWO AMERICANS
AND WENT BACK TO THE
CONVERSATION.
>> ANY FURTHER CONVERSATIONS?
>> THERE WAS A SUGGESTION WHICH
HE SEEMED OPEN TO FOR A RETURN
VISIT AND YOU KNOW HE DEFINITELY
CAME AWAY WITH A SENSE THAT ARE
WAS IN ADDITION TO THIS
GENERATIONAL GAP THERE WAS THIS
HUNGER ON THE PART OF THE NORTH
TO TRY TO BRING THE U.S. INTO
SOME SORT OF DIALOGUE.
>> SO WHAT ROLE DOES CHINA PLAY
IN ALL THIS AND HAS NORTH KOREAN
BEHAVIOR CHANGED OVER THE LAST
COUPLE OF MONTHS?
>> RIGHT, SO YEAH, I SPOKE ON
LAST WEEK TO SENIOR DEFENSE
OFFICIALS WHO HAVE BEEN TRACKING
THE NORTH.
AND OVER THE LAST TWO TO THREE
MONTHS THERE'S BEEN A NOTICEABLE
LACK OF AGGRESSIVENESS ON THE
PART OF THE NORTH WHICH
CONTRASTS WITH WHERE THE NORTH
HAS BEEN DURING PREVIOUS CYCLES
IN THE RELATIONSHIP WITH THE
UNITED STATES.
SO THEY'VE NONE OPPOSED, THIS
TONING DOWN OF THE
AGGRESSIVENESS OF THE NORTH
WHICH U.S. OFFICIALS ATTRIBUTE
AT LEAST IN PART TO THE CHINESE
WHICH HAVE BEEN SENDING MESSAGES
AND THEY'VE CERTAINLY TOLD THEIR
AMERICAN COUNTERPART THAT
THEY'VE SENDS THIS MESSAGES TO
THE NORTH TO TONE DOWN THEIR
AGGRESSIVE POSTURE.
>> ADAM ENTOUS.
OF THE WALL STREET JOURNAL,
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
>> IT WAS A PLEASURE.
>> Sreenivasan: TODAY ON CBS'S
FACE THE NATION, CLAPPER SAID
HE WASN'T SURE WHAT IMPACT HIS
RECENT TRIP TO NORTH KOREA OR
THE RELEASE OF THE PRISONERS
WOULD HAVE.
>> DO YOU THINK THIS HAS CHANGED
ANYTHING?
>> THAT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
I THINK THAT REMAINS TO BE SEEN
AS TO WHERE DO WE GO FROM HERE.
WILL THIS PERHAPS SERVE AS A
CATALYST OR STIMULUS FOR MORE
DIALOGUE?
I HOPE SO, BUT I DON'T KNOW.
>> Sreenivasan: BRITAIN, LIKE
THE UNITED STATES, IS FACING A
GROWING OBESITY PROBLEM.
AND IT MAY HAVE TO DO WITH WHAT
PEOPLE DRINK AS WELL AS WHAT
THEY EAT.
NOW THE ROYAL SOCIETY FOR PUBLIC
HEALTH IS ASKING THE E.U. TO
SUPPORT ITS EFFORTS TO GET
ALCOHOL MANUFACTURERS TO DISPLAY
THE CALORIE COUNT ON BOTTLES OF
BEER, WINE AND HARD LIQUOR.
IT'S AN IDEA THE BRITISH BEER
AND PUB ASSOCIATION SAYS IS
UNWORKABLE, ONE THAT WILL LEAD
TO CONFUSION AMONG DRINKERS.
CHRIS CHOI OF ITV REPORTS.
>> THIS IS NOT WHAT IT SEEMS.
TWO GROUPS OF DRINKERS, EACH
UNKNOWINGLY PARTICIPATING IN A
SMALL-SCALE EXPERIMENT INTO
NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION AND
ALCOHOL.
ONE GROUP HAS A DRINKS MENU WITH
CALORIES.
THE OTHER GROUP DOESN'T GET THAT
INFORMATION.
AND THE GROUP THAT HAVE THOSE
DETAILS ON AVERAGE DRANK 400
CALORIES LEST.
>> FOR MYSELF BECAUSE I'M TRYING
TO BE MORE LIKE STRICT ON IT I
THINK HAVING THEM LABELED
DEFINITELY HELPS.
>> I DIDN'T REALLY KNOW THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE BEERS
THAT WERE ON THE MENU SO I CHOSE
BASED ON THE CALORIES.
>> OUR THEORY IS THAT IF IT DID
INFLUENCE THE AMOUNT PEOPLE
DRINK, BECAUSE THEY BECOME AWARE
OF THE NUMBER OF CALORIES IN
THEIR DRINKS, THAT IT MIGHT JUST
HELP TO THE BIG BATTLE OF
OBESITY EPIDEMIC.
>> MANY IN THE, BUT SAY DRINKS
SUCH AS A LATTE COFFEE CAN HAVE
JUST AS MANY CALORIES.
>> HAVE YOU GOT ROOM TO PUT ALL
THESE THINGS ON THE BACK OF A
BOTTLE?
THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS WE
HAVEN'T BEEN DOING IT SO FAR.
WE ALSO HAVE THE CHIEF MEDICAL
OFFICER'S GUIDANCE.
WE HAVE THE STRENGTH OF THE
PRODUCT AND WE HAVE PREGNANCY
WARNINGS.
>> THE DECISION ON NUTRITIONAL
LABELING ON BOOZE REACHES THE EU
IN DECEMBER.
FOR YEARS NUTRITIONISTS HAVE
OPENED UP ISSUES ON CALORIE
LINES, NEW BATTLE LINES.
>> Sreenivasan: SOME MORE NEWS
BEFORE WE LEAVE YOU TONIGHT.
THE STATE DEPARTMENT HAS SHUT
DOWN ITS UNCLASSIFIED EMAIL
SYSTEM FOLLOWING AN SUSPECTED
ATTACK BY HACKERS.
THE MOVE WAS MADE LATE FRIDAY
ACCORDING TO A SENIOR OFFICIAL
WHO SAID NO CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION WAS COMPROMISED.
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES
IMPROPERLY APPROVED DISABILITY
PAYMENTS TO NEARLY 25,000
PEOPLE WHO DID NOT QUALIFY, THE
COST OF $2 BILLION.
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
THE PBS NEWSHOUR.
JOIN US ON AIR AND ONLINE
TOMORROW.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
GOOD NIGHT.